# Brain Signal Classification

## Purpose and authors
The presented framework facilitates the analysis of neural time series. It provides an end-to-end tool to classify a given time series (i.e. a brain signal) according to different characteristics. A possible use case could be to differentiate a cat and a dog based on their brain signals. If one had a sufficiently large number of measurements of the brain signals of both types of animals, the framework is able to estimate the probability that a given time series belongs to a cat or a dog.

The present code was developed together with Dr. Paulius Viskaitis from the Neurobehavioral Dynamics Lab at ETH Zurich. 

## How it works
First, the raw data is loaded into the framework. The data loader extracts the classes and other information based on file names and brings the data into an appropriate format. The different time series can also be chunked into smaller time series to increase the sample size in case this is an issue. As a next step, a number of features can be extracted for each time series chunk. The framework automatically extracts only the features that are significantly different between the different classes (in the above example: cats and dogs) unless the user specifies a particular set of features that she is interested in. Consequently, these features will be used to train a classifier (e.g. logistic regression or random forest). Some classifiers are more sensitive to the choice of hyperparameters than others, which is why the framework offers a functionality to optimize them. Usually the hyperparameter optimization is computationally intensive and is thus recommended to be done on a cluster. Once the final model is found, predictions can be computed for unseen time series to test the model.

Finally, it remains to be mentioned that this modeling process can be applied to different types of signals in parallel. As a result, the final predictions can be based on multiple models for multiple signals, i.e. the framework is also able to estimate the probability that a given set of signals (e.g. brain signal and heart signal) belongs to a cat or a dog. Incorporating this extra information usually leads to more reliable classifications. 
